Welcome to our VR double feature,
the second half of that.
I'm Rhonda Straatton
from the QuickTime team,
and I'm here to introduce to you our
second VR session featuring Dennis Biela,
who has been working on some just
amazing projects with QuickTime VR.
In the last session,
we heard about a lot of new tools and
ways to make VR and ways to get into it.
In this session,
we're going to hear about some
really amazing projects that
Dennis has been working on.
And a lot of guys have been
working on some cool things,
but Dennis has just really impressed me
with some of the things he's been doing.
So, no further ado.
Oh, I do have to make one sort
of administrative thing.
As far as Q&A,
we try to keep that to the end.
If you've got a really burning question,
okay.
But please make sure you have a question.
Please make sure you always speak
into the mic when you have a question
so the translators can get it so
that everyone can hear the question.
But I'll come back up at the end
and host the majority of the Q&A,
okay?
Thanks.
So, good morning.
You can all hear me okay?
Everything's working in the back there?
I get the thumbs up, I love it.
Okay.
So, a little bit about myself,
since I don't think many
of you have taken any of my
sessions before or whatever.
So I'm that VR guy.
You know, when people say, you know,
that VR guy, that's me.
That's right here.
So, my company's called Lightspeed Media.
I also have another company
called The Way Ahead Group,
because if you're not way ahead,
you must be far behind.
And Dennis Biela Photography.
And basically, I'm just a photographer.
I tell people that all the time.
I'm just a photographer.
Please don't.
Don't give me all this information.
So, I've been doing photography
for a long time.
I started in photojournalism.
I became a photographer because stick
people are tough for me to draw.
You know, the little one-line things.
So, I got involved in taking pictures.
And I found at an early age
in high school that it was a
great way for meeting girls,
you know, take their pictures.
So, I got wrapped up into photography.
And after a little while
in photojournalism,
I started doing a lot of commercial work.
And I specialized in
the automotive industry.
For those of you who do not know,
the automotive industry is an $8
billion a year in advertising.
So, I tend to be very, you know,
watch them a lot.
So, I started doing work
for like GM and Jaguar.
If I say them correctly three times,
they promise me more work.
And I got involved in digital imaging.
In fact,
I was doing digital quite a long time.
I'm a beta tester for Kodak
and Canon on digital cameras.
So, about six or seven years ago,
I heard about this thing on the web.
You know, you could take your pictures
and you could put together
this thing called QuickTime VR.
At that time, it was a free set of tools
just to play with it,
to experiment with.
So, I started downloading it.
And if you were in the earlier session,
you heard that the automotive industry
is one of the largest users of VR.
So, I started doing a lot of
QuickTime VR for automotive use.
I've done some stuff for GMs.
I have a project coming up for GM.
I'm doing some work for a BMW.
So, I've been in it quite a long time.
For those of you who may
not have seen VR before,
it's basically a series of still images.
We can use a lot of
different capture devices,
but it's a series of still images,
whether we're looking out,
which would be a panoramic,
or we're looking in,
which would be an object movie.
And we have a lot of
different techniques.
We'll talk about that.
I'm going to switch to the laptop one.
Thank you.
And just show you really quick
two samples of what a VR is.
The first one here I'm going
to show you is a cubic movie.
So this is a full 360 environment
that I can look around in.
I did this quite some time ago when
Apple was just playing with cubics.
It's in Chicago.
It's at Christmastime.
And I just wanted to show, you know,
a nice wintry scene.
When I travel around,
I do a lot of traveling in Asia,
the kids are like, is that snow?
So, yeah.
We'll close that one out,
and then I'll show you an object movie.
We'll talk more about this later,
but I'll show you an object movie.
And this is an actual aircraft
that we shot at the Smithsonian.
We'll get into that later.
But it's 36 shots,
and I can move my cursor.
I can see all the different
sides of the airplane.
In our Smithsonian project,
we'll actually have text and
other information and links.
So it will be a very interactive piece.
But we'll take a look.
Thank you.
We'll talk about that later.
If I can go back to my presentation.
So I'm going to talk to you a little
bit about three projects that we've
done in the last eight months.
I'm going to give you a
little bit of overview.
I'm going to talk you through
the process that we go through.
I'm not really here to talk to
you about developing new tools,
though.
I'm going to show you a lot of really
cool stuff and give you some ideas.
But I'm going to talk to you
more about what we go through
on our different projects.
I found at an early age in photography
that it was just as easy to go after
big work as it was for small work.
You know, that old additive about,
you know, big jobs are just as much
as little jobs is true.
So I tend to concentrate on, like,
major projects.
The other thing that you may be
interested in knowing is that most of
these projects were ones that I created.
You know,
I went and talked to somebody and showed
them concepts and came up with the idea.
Very little of our work
is somebody picking up the
phone and calling me saying,
would you do this for us?
We have a lot of projects.
But most of them were
created by ourselves.
I have an associate I work with,
and we would talk about different
ideas and start looking for
clients that we maybe work for.
The first one is the
Esplanade in Singapore.
We have some people from
Singapore in the crowd.
This is like their Sydney Opera House.
It's a huge facility.
It's shaped like a durian fruit.
And none of you know
what that looks like,
but it's kind of like a pineapple.
Cut in half, lay it on both sides,
and that's their facilities.
And they had some interesting ideas for
what possibly they could do with VR.
We went in there and we started talking
to them about the concept of what
possibly they may be using the VR for.
There's always expectations
on the client side.
You know, they think that, you know,
you should be able to do this, right?
And you're like,
there's no technology for that yet,
but I'll think about it.
And then, you know, they're like, well,
I'm going to do this.
And then, you know,
the client's concerns.
Oh, my God, will you be able to do this?
And, you know,
you have to sit there and go through it.
Mac versus PC.
This was my only client
that had just some concerns.
There were no concerns after
the fact that QuickTime played
no problem in their system.
We went in,
we loaded up QuickTime on all their
machines because they're mostly PC-based.
They ran all the VR.
It ran fine,
and then it was never a concern again.
For those of you that may be working with
QuickTime or developing in QuickTime,
I can tell you that
the tides have changed.
I have very little issues now with
any major corporations in QuickTime.
Before, it used to be like, well,
that's an Apple thing.
You know, we're IBM.
We can't use an Apple thing.
So now it's more along the lines of, oh,
yeah, QuickTime, I've heard about that.
That's just a download, right?
It doesn't cost us now, does it?
I'm like, no, no, it's a free download.
You can go to Apple's
website and pick it up.
So the tides have turned,
and a lot of people are
trying to get out of it.
And a lot of people
are adopting QuickTime.
It became very important to us in a
couple of slides that are coming up.
One of the things that is also
important is pre-planning.
I think a lot of people
just come in and they think,
we'll shoot pictures.
We'll just shoot the pictures,
and then we'll author the materials,
and we'll put the VR together,
and they'll be happy.
And you've already built in
problem points if you do that.
We do a lot of pre-planning.
We go through.
We take pictures of all
the different areas.
We then put together
storyboards for video work.
We put together real storyboards,
and we get the clients to
sign off on the storyboards.
Because guaranteed, guaranteed,
the first time you start shooting,
they're going to be like,
could you shoot an extra picture here?
It's only a few minutes, right?
Just a few extra snaps right here.
And you do that.
And then you go,
and you get to the next spot,
and it's like, oh, just another couple
quick pictures over here.
It's not a big deal.
And then the next thing you
know is that they have the only
marble toilet in Singapore.
And Michael Jordan sat on this.
Could you shoot a quick VR for us?
It's one here and one there
and one in the washroom.
And next thing you know,
it's like you've got a
whole new project going on,
and who's going to pay for it?
So one of the things that we make
sure of is that we have everything
approved as to what we're going to do.
Now, there's a thing out
there called value added.
We're very big in value adding.
So I may not charge
you for the extra work,
but I want you to know that I'm doing it.
You know,
it wasn't something that we agreed to.
So you can see what other things
that I may be throwing into the
project because I want you happy.
Remember,
your happiness is my foremost concern.
And if I say that really well,
they really believe me too.
So this one was a different project.
I'm going to show you
some VRs in a little bit.
This was for Zephyr 3 Partners.
It's an agency.
They specialize in doing
web content for agencies,
and they wanted to shoot or
wanted to do some things for VR.
And they came to us and they said,
you know, could we do some interior?
So we had to do concepting with them.
We did a lot of concepting,
a lot of thinking about what they wanted.
And then...
[Transcript missing]
It only works in 9,
which is a big problem for me
because everything I have is in 10,
so I have to jump back and forth.
But anyway, it allows me to output
these linear movies.
So we are outputting these
broadcast-quality linear movies
so that they could have plasma
display screens like you see
throughout the conference here.
They also had those at the
theater so that you could see
different spots of the theater,
like the library.
You could go see where the
library is on the big screens,
just as rolling video,
to entice you to go visit the library.
All right,
let me get back to... So Citation Shares,
and I need to launch... Oh,
we need to go to... Yeah, thank you,
you're way ahead of me.
Every once in a while that happens.
So I'll be there in just a second.
We need to get to my bookmark.
Can we switch to the laptop now?
I think it's working.
There we go.
I just love it when this stuff works.
So this is Citation Shares,
and I'll need to take you to an aircraft.
So we're live.
This is not on my hard drive
trying to get you there.
And you can see that, you know,
the different sizes.
And for $359,000,
you can go ahead and buy that, you know,
share that jet.
So they have different, like, cabins,
stuff like that.
And then we can have VR of the interior.
So here's a cubic VR that we shot
just showing the inside of the cabin.
We used a 3D rendering program
called Bryce to create the exterior.
So it looks like you're
flying outside the windows.
And the first thing that
the company told us was,
"We're too low."
Of all the problems I faced,
I had it were too low.
So I was like, is it really important?
So they're like, well, you know,
we don't want people to
think we fly recklessly.
Okay, no problem.
I'll work on that.
So it kind of has a distorted view.
The client wanted to show like
the entire cabin right away,
so not particularly how I would
normally like to show it.
I'd rather have it so it's zoomed in
a bit so that we could look around.
But it's a way for people to see it.
Their clientele, you know,
is Fortune 500 companies.
Broadband is not the issue.
In fact, some of these people have
like T3 lines to their homes.
So, you know,
as big of files as we wanted to make,
they were fine with that.
Interiors, the animations that
we were talking about.
So like the seat, I can rotate, you know,
show different accessories.
This seat doesn't do much.
It's a lame seat.
We have, you know,
but we have other seats.
We have other seats where they
actually unfold and there's like
a little place for your drinks.
We had to animate the drinks coming in.
You know, all that good stuff.
So tables, table on there.
So again, showing that, you know,
you can -- okay, come on.
We can get there.
There we go.
We can -- we show that, you know,
you have these fold-out tables,
that type of thing.
So their big thing was to animate
showing the clients or prospective
clients all the possibilities that if
they rented this jet for only $359,000,
$359,000 per year,
that they could open up a folding table.
So --
But actually, they have found that this
technology has improved sales.
They did a little demo CD.
They sent out demo CDs with PDFs to,
I think, about 1,000 prospective clients.
And out of those 1,000
prospective clients,
they had a response of 30.
Now, you may say, well, 30 people.
Yeah, but 30 people at 300,000.
I'll take 30 people at
300,000 every day of the week.
So if we can go back to my demo machine,
please.
So that was a really good project
for us and it started us thinking.
This is the National Air and
Space Museum,
part of the Smithsonian.
It's my current project right now.
It's rather a huge project.
We're shooting over 200 aircraft
and 144 space artifacts.
The original project was
going to go for eight months.
We're now up to two years.
There are a guesstimate that we'll be
working on the project for two years.
I got an email saying, "Oh my God,
you won't believe it.
We may have more work." I'm like,
"Two years?"
You know, there's only so much I can
love airplanes after two years.
But anyway,
so we're shooting a lot of stuff.
We're creating a lot of QuickTime VR,
and we're doing a lot of really cool,
cutting-edge stuff.
So let's talk about some of the
things leading up to the project.
So my initial contact with the museum,
people want to know, like,
how do you get this work?
So I was doing work for another museum,
and somebody told me that
the Smithsonian was thinking
of doing something similar,
and this museum was so proud that
they were ahead of the Smithsonian.
So as soon as I heard that,
I picked up the phone and
started calling the Smithsonian,
saying, "I hear you want some
VR shot." And they were like,
"VR what?" You know, so I had to, like,
find the right people.
This project took me two years
just to get it moving forward.
I've been working on it for two years,
talking to curators,
talking to different departments,
at the Smithsonian, going through a whole
bunch of issues with them.
My biggest thing is my
contract is 35 pages long,
and 20 pages relate to insurance.
You know, like, there's no way I could
insure the right flyer.
You know, I just don't,
I can't get a policy big enough.
So there's these new things I keep
having to learn as we go through.
Prototyping.
Prototyping became really big
when I started working with the
Smithsonian and other larger museums,
because for a visual thing, you know,
they're not visual.
You know, I tell them, "Well, here,
we can do this,
we can do that," and I show that to them,
and they, like, don't get it.
So I have to use their actual pieces.
There's a joke in Chicago that, you know,
if you shoot an apple pie,
a peach pie won't do.
You have to shoot an apple pie, you know,
to show to an art director.
So, anyway, so same thing with this.
I had to actually go in and
start shooting aircraft.
I had to go in and start shooting
aircraft and build prototypes
with their stuff before they could
visualize what they wanted to do.
Expectations.
They had very low expectations.
We were actually in
there showing them stuff,
and they were like,
"I never knew I could do this.
This is so cool." You know,
does it cost much?
That's a byword, funding.
Funding is always a big
byword at the Smithsonian.
Clients' concerns.
We had a lot of concerns in the
very beginning when we started
shooting because there was
like touching the artifacts.
They have very specific rules
about touching a 50-year-old
airplane or an 80-year-old aircraft.
Mac versus PC.
I was really concerned about this because
the Smithsonian has an IT department
that's the IT department from hell?
You know, they're like, "Apple?
No, we can't do that." You know,
I'm like, "No, no, it's easy.
It's QuickTime.
You know, take the Apple part out.
Just think QuickTime." "But
that's an Apple product.
It won't run on our servers." No,
it's not an issue, believe me.
So I spend -- it took two weeks for
them to hook up an airport extreme.
They had two people at the facility
to hook up the extreme because they
weren't sure how well it would go,
and they dedicated all day.
So, it took 30 seconds to
plug in the Ethernet.
It's a government job.
Remember,
two people plug in that Ethernet cable.
And then I'm on the Mac and I say, "Okay,
I have Signal." And they're like, "No,
you can't.
It can't be that easy." "No, no,
it's a Mac thing."
So, it took me two weeks to get that 30
seconds for them to plug that in.
So, dealing a lot with convincing
them that the Mac is the way
to go as far as easeability,
but on QuickTime, no issues.
Showed them running QuickTime on Windows,
showed them QuickTime streaming server,
showed them all the stuff that
they could do without changing
the way they're working,
and they were very impressed.
They were impressed
that it doesn't break,
they were impressed
that it actually works,
they were impressed that they
wouldn't have to hire extra
people to make it happen.
So, it was a good thing for us.
Hardware,
Apple Computer and Rhonda Strahton,
they've been very good to us and
they've loaned us some computers to use.
So we're using Nikon and
Canon digital cameras.
Remember,
I'm that digital guy in the other world.
So we shoot with the Nikon
D1Xs and on the Canon side,
the Canon D1S.
Make really high meg files,
we'll talk about that later.
Bogan Lighting, Kydan VR heads, Dr.
Lewis has made us that
specialized motorized head,
Lexar Media with the CF memory cards,
and GreyTag Macbeth for color.
I've now served my country
and God because I've got
all my sponsors out there.
Thank you.
So lots of hardware.
Oh, let's go back for one quick thing.
We, oops, I'm going the wrong way here.
I hate when that happens.
We have these rolling carts.
So there's an aircraft in the background.
We have the Canon 1DS,
and we fire the cameras right
through firewire into the computers.
We've had a host of special applications,
not a host, a few special applications
written for us,
but basically we've found it's
very expedient to shoot right to
the hard drives of the computers,
saves us time downloading,
and we can also visually
see the images right away.
We're using five computers, two laptops.
There's two photographers.
We have volunteers.
We actually have more volunteers now.
The Smithsonian has
dedicated staff to us,
and we have one dedicated
janitorial staff.
That's what CES is.
It's our janitor.
We have our own project.
We have a private janitor
because photographers are messy.
So...
This is the interior of the new museum.
It's called the Hasi Center.
It's 200 feet wide and 1,000 feet long.
And museums,
the reason why we got involved,
or one of the reasons we got
involved with them is there's
a love-hate thing at museums.
We want you to come and see
all of our great artifacts.
And you get there,
and don't get too close.
Back up.
Don't touch that.
So it's this thing of,
they want you to come and see everything,
but they don't want
you to touch anything.
And then the other issue is that a lot
of the airplanes are now hanging so that
you couldn't even get up close to them.
So one of the reasons that
QuickTime VR is a major asset to
them is that there'll be 100 kiosks
spread out throughout the museum.
And as you go through the museum,
you'll start to see
groupings of aircraft.
That aircraft will be on the kiosk,
and now you can start seeing up
close what you're seeing from afar.
And I'll show you some
samples in just a minute.
Color management was a
very big deal for us.
Besides the fact that Smithsonian has
exacting standards on,
like, if something is printed,
it has to be reproduced faithfully,
just managing all these
different cameras.
We found out that the different cameras
shoot color a little differently.
So Apple has this really cool
technology called ColorSync,
and now QuickTime is
supported by ColorSync,
so my life is so much easier.
And Apple was nice enough to fly out.
Kevin O'Connor, he's a color specialist
that teaches for Apple,
and Gray Tag Macbeth loaned the
calibrator so we could calibrate
all our LCDs and come up with the
look-up tables for the cameras
so that everything matches.
I can shoot any camera that we have,
even going across brands, you know,
whether it's Nikon or Canon,
and I can match within 5% the color
using ColorSync and ColorSync.
So we have a couple of tools
out there from Gray Tag Macbeth.
So it became a very good thing because
nothing's worse than going through a VR,
especially a multiple-row VR,
and seeing that the
color shifts for one row,
right?
Just, you notice it right away,
it's not a good thing,
don't want to go there.
Okay.
So color.
Next thing is custom hardware.
No one airplane is alike.
You know, there are always, you know,
variations and stuff.
And people were asking, like,
how do you rotate that, you know?
You know, do you walk around it?
Well, if you walk around,
if you do the marking, you know,
every 10 degrees around the
facility and walk around,
then the plane starts to look jerky.
It doesn't come out as smooth as
if you rotate the aircraft itself.
So, you know,
I'm always fighting budgets, you know,
just like any government institution.
I'm just a contractor.
I'm not even the photographer anymore.
And so we're always fighting budgets,
and I've come up with all
the hardware we could buy.
I could buy commercially to do that,
and they were like, great,
we have no money for that.
Okay, well, let me think about it.
So there's these things called baskets,
and the baskets are what they
move the aircraft around.
They actually use them on
aircraft carriers to move fighters
into tight corners and stuff.
So we bought a bunch of these baskets.
This is two-inch steel pipe,
and we have special fittings made
so we can slide the airplane into
wherever we need to get so it's
centered over its rotation point.
Okay.
So we have these, and there's about 150
to 200 pounds of weight.
There's a steel plate.
There's a piece of plywood and duct tape,
because no good project can
survive without duct tape.
And that's put on the floor,
and that's our center point,
and then two people at both ends
of the airplane start pushing it.
And every 10 degrees
that's marked on the floor,
they know they should stop,
and then we shoot another picture.
Now, on occasion,
I found out that the floor
in our first location,
it wasn't level.
You know, you get 10,000 pounds rolling,
and the mast wants to
get to that low point.
It's pretty tough to stop it.
So another one of those
things that we learned.
Lighting.
We had a lot of issues with lighting.
How do you get light into these cockpits?
How can you get into tight places?
Again, lots of ideas.
We ended up buying $7 fluorescent bulbs.
Digital cameras have great
capabilities to white balance in
multiple color spectrum settings.
We used these fluorescent bulbs.
We went out and tested a bunch
of them and found a particular
brand that was pretty consistent.
We used those on stands.
We hang them.
They actually now have
battery-operated fluorescent bulbs,
where it takes about 5 to 10 AA batteries
so we can hide AA batteries within
the airplane to light it up so
we can shoot VR on the inside.
Again, we have a lot of hardware
we had to come up with.
That's Jim's rig on the left,
a Kydan spherical head.
We have a special -- the
government must assume that
butts are always 28 inches wide,
because all military
seats are 28 inches wide.
So we have a special stand
that the VR head clamps to,
and then we can put the VR head into
the seat so we can give that view as
if you're sitting in the aircraft.
We also have what's
called a Bogan Superclamp.
And that hangs on pipes above so that
we can see around inside the cockpit.
Now, on the other side,
I have my own little VR head that
I made out of wood for fisheye lenses.
So I could do four shots with a fisheye.
It has a little pin that stops it.
Because that cockpit is
molded to somebody's head.
The shield that comes around
is only 6 inches wide.
You know, they made it as streamlined
as they could in 1932.
So there I had some new issues
for placement and stuff.
Lewis's -- I'll just move this
a little bit more forward.
And I'll just start this.
There it goes.
So on the jet aircraft
that we have to shoot,
they have like prototype jets,
and they have like F-4 fighters,
and a whole bunch of really
interesting fighters.
It takes 15 minutes to open up the
canopy because they have no power source,
so they have to crank the hydraulics.
So with these types of assemblies,
we have to open a window, click,
and then close the
window 15 seconds later.
The camera fires, open up the window,
move it to the next position, click,
close the window, get out of the way.
So can you imagine 15
minutes between the click?
So we were thinking about the issue.
I had talked to Louis.
So he came up with this automated VR head
for us so that we can mount this inside.
The jets,
we can then press the button to start it,
close the canopy,
and then it'll start shooting.
It'll do its whole roll.
It takes about six minutes for
it to shoot the entire interior,
and then we can open up the canopy again.
So within 45 minutes,
we're done entirely with the
aircraft as opposed to 15
minutes cranking and closing.
So a lot of problem
solving in our projects.
A lot of issues that
we have to think about.
This is the view from above.
So you can see underneath the airplane
are little marks every 10 degrees,
duct tape.
No good project can
live without duct tape.
So, and on the other side,
that's the bomb site to the B-29.
Now,
the Smithsonian is putting every aircraft
in the museum back to flying condition.
If you could add gas to it,
you could turn the key, it would fly.
So that's the level of restoration
that they're going through.
Well, the problem for them is that
all the things that go inside
the airplane will disappear.
You'll never get to see it.
So, like, this is the first non-optical
weapon system the U.S.
government ever had.
It was a simple radar bombing site.
So they yanked it out of the
airplane and we had to photograph it.
Again, we didn't have a turntable
that could take it,
so we just slapped a
piece of plywood on it.
And there's a little piece of PVC pipe
shooting off the side and this guy
sits on this little roller and he lines
it up and then he pushes himself off.
I take the picture, he rolls back up,
moves it over.
You know, it's cheap automation.
So, and then we take the actual images
and then we'll drop out backgrounds.
So like you see on the Steven's Acro,
that's the monoplane on the bottom there.
You know, we're always dropping out
backgrounds for all the different VR.
So I'm going now show you
a whole bunch of samples.
We could go to the laptop.
And I want to launch
So I'll show you the first sample.
So this is a standard VR,
and the problem that we run into
is until you blow in the text
and all the other information,
people look at it and
think it's just a toy,
right?
It's a model.
Here we are pushing these big aircraft,
and they think it's a rendering,
but I can look at all
the different sides.
Okay, so I can see all the different
parts of the aircraft.
How do I shoot it, though?
There's the airplane
sitting on the baskets.
There's our weights in the middle.
We have these big blue tarps.
So we have two areas in the museum.
We have two studios set up with
these hundred-foot-long blue tarps,
and then I can click and
I can rotate the aircraft.
And then we bring in the volunteers,
and they sit there for days on end,
you know, cutting, pasting,
dropping out backgrounds.
So this is how we start it.
I'll show you the radar unit.
This is the final piece for
the radar that you saw sitting.
So this will be on the computer kiosk.
We'll talk about the
kiosk in just a minute.
And the idea is information
would be showing up around it.
So here's the monocoop that we did,
the exterior.
Again, one shot every 10 degrees.
We now have an assembly.
We haven't authored anything yet,
but we have an assembly like a
big arc that they're welding,
and we're going to be placing it above
the aircraft so we can do multiple row,
so that you'll be able to
rotate the plane down and see
it like a god's eye from above.
The Smithsonian VR is really cool,
but what they really
love are the interiors.
So this is a cubic of an
interior of that same aircraft.
We haven't put in a rendered sky yet.
I can go right.
I can go left.
Just like the car, I can go above.
Come back around.
and go down below.
So a full 360 environment.
So this is the big thing for the museum.
You come through, you go to a kiosk,
and now you can start
looking at the kiosk,
start learning more about that aircraft.
So earlier I talked to
you about prototyping.
Oh, I have to show you this one.
You know, remember the wheels
and the tires and the,
you know, the spinning it all?
So this is a float plane.
They put it together on mattresses,
so there's no wheels.
So my volunteer that works directly
with me is a retired neurologist.
So he's 82 years old, Doc Harvey.
I love the man dearly.
And we never have challenges,
we never have problems.
We're building new pathways.
So I have a lot of pathways on this one.
So how we made this work
was we have a crane,
and I don't have the shot handy.
If I find it later,
I'll pull it up for you.
We have a crane.
We brought a crane over,
and there's a cable holding the airplane.
It's suspended on one cable.
And you know how it is.
If you tell a person that they have
to sit in the same space every shot,
they'll never do it for you.
They'll be all over the gamut.
So I didn't say anything,
and watch the girl.
This is my big kick.
She's staying in the airplane as
we rotate it every 10 degrees,
and she's always in the perfect,
you know, like she's just looking ahead.
I thought we should put water
and make her look like a mermaid.
Okay.
Going through.
So here we are.
We're rotating.
This is an N3N.
I know way more about these aircraft now
than I ever really knew about aircraft.
This particular N3N was hanging at
Annapolis over their ice skating rink.
And the Smithsonian was
given the aircraft,
and they had to go in and
pick it up and disassemble it.
And the people who restore the aircraft,
it's like they're children.
And they hover.
And while they're hovering
over you while you're shooting,
they're telling you more and more.
And they're telling you more
information about the aircraft.
So I know who flew the airplane
and all its significance.
So let me show you prototyping.
We'll do that really quick.
So I have a folder.
And I want to show you,
so this was one of my early concepts.
When they would call me in and say,
could you show us some samples, you know,
possibilities for kiosks,
one of the things that I said is, well,
we'll have a QuickTime movie.
We'll shoot a video of, say,
like John Glenn, which we have,
we've already done that.
And then somebody could click and
then they would be listening to
him talk about what it was like
to fly in the Mercury capsule,
right?
You know, that type of stuff.
The Smithsonian, it's really cool,
they have 28,000 movie-tone newsreels.
You know, old vintage movies from the,
you know, like 1900s and stuff like that.
They're kept in a room
like this called the vault.
And the room's air-conditioned and stuff,
but the stuff's deteriorating anyway.
There's no way to protect it.
So we've started taking on
digitizing these old vintage
movies with their staff,
because we can't touch this stuff,
which is really funny.
So anyway.
So there's all this vintage
footage that we're running into.
So part of my job now is
not only shooting VR and
keeping records and all that,
but digitizing in movies.
And now they hit me with this,
which is the best codec to use if
we want to come back in 20 years?
You know, 20 years, I'm like,
I don't even know what the
operating system will be.
So it's kind of,
it's cool and it's frightening
in the same effect because
I'm writing the standards for
the rest of the Smithsonian,
and the Smithsonian is writing the
standards for 30 other museums,
and everybody holds up
the National Air and
Space Museum as the reference.
The National Air and Space Museum has
11 million visitors per year.
It's the most visited
museum in the world.
Just as a sidebar, the National Air and
Space Museum generates 40% of the
entire budget for the Smithsonian.
I don't mean budget as
in like operating budget.
I mean that 40% of the entire
Smithsonian's budget is funded
just by the Air and Space Museum.
So that's how much visitors they have.
So prototyping.
So I showed them that and they were like,
"Yeah, that's cool.
What else could you do?"
So we had to come back.
We had to think.
Something that I tried to avoid,
thinking.
So QuickTime and QuickTime VR is
a really marvelous technology.
You know,
QuickTime I correlate to being a bucket,
and everything I can fit
in that bucket I can show.
So not only can I show the visual,
not only can I show sound,
but I can put in programming, right?
I can make QuickTime movies
control other applications.
that control the whole computer.
So this is an early sample,
and I'll click,
and I can look around right
here in standard VR movie,
right?
Notice that the QuickTime bar
goes all the way across,
so this is one big movie.
So I want to see the Gemini spacecraft,
I want to see the X-1,
I want to see the Wright Flyer.
Think of kiosks.
Always think of kiosks.
Internal display is
showing you this stuff.
Somebody comes up,
they see a grouping of planes,
they see a grouping of
planes in my QuickTime movie.
They want to do that.
But now we want to have more information.
So you click on the X-15,
now I'm pulling, retrieving text in
other QuickTime movies.
I'm doing that with all in that VR shell.
So controlling all the
other applications.
I showed this to the Smithsonian,
and they were drool.
All over.
It was disgusting.
.
We love this stuff.
This is exactly what we're looking for.
I was like, why didn't you tell
me that two years ago?
So I show them all the capabilities,
but there's always the but, right?
You have to wait.
You know it's coming, so you get quiet,
and they're like,
but we have 11 million visitors per year.
How will we make this work on 100 kiosks?
You know,
people want to spend their time there.
So we had to think about it.
We came up, and there's a technology
out there called SmartCard.
And SmartCard technology
is basically a credit card.
One of the things that we're working,
and they have USB card readers,
but there's not enough drivers
out there for those card readers.
Just putting it out there.
So, the thing now is that you'll
go to Smithsonian and you'll
buy like a credit card.
It'll have a picture of an airplane.
Marketing, right?
We're going to do 20 different pictures,
20 different cards.
Buy all 20.
$2 a piece.
So, funding.
It's always about funding.
Remember that.
So, on the back of the magnetic stripe,
they'll encode your name,
your email address,
and your mailing address.
You'll now go through the museum.
You'll start looking at stuff
and you'll get to some point,
either time or amount of information.
And all of a sudden,
you'll get into a certain depth.
You'll drill down and then
a shield will show up,
you know, the Smithsonian shield.
And it'll say, "Thank you very much,
but your visitation with
this kiosk has now ended.
Please swipe your card."
You'll swipe your card and the
servers will automatically know
where you're at on the URL.
And it'll email you a picture
of the corresponding aircraft
so that when you get home,
you can now open up that email,
see the picture of the Apollo or Gemini,
whatever, click on the URLs and now go to
a website with even more content.
The Smithsonian is now growing
outside of the brick and mortar,
right?
There -- before when
I would talk to them,
they were like, you know,
we'll get to that in five or six years.
You know, and I'm like,
we should do this now.
You know, five or six years.
I don't even know what the operating
system will be in five or six years.
So, we didn't love that.
But then we showed them something else.
Besides being a revenue
generating stream,
we went a little bit farther.
Now, think about it.
If all you're doing is looking at jets
and you're swiping your card for jets,
obviously, the odds are, I would think,
that you're interested in jets.
So, when I did this demo,
I did the shield and I showed
the card swiping and did
all that stuff in QuickTime,
you know, drool, again, the whole bit,
but there was this little oriental guy
in the back of the room and he's like,
this is great.
I just love -- you're a beautiful person.
So, hence the reason why
I picked up that line.
So,
I was like -- I thought he was a curator,
right?
I thought he was like some
bigwig that I hadn't met,
you know, like some director or whatever.
And, well,
thank you very much and who are you?
And he's like, I'm the store manager.
Think of all those emails I can send
out to people who are interested in.
So, the idea is now building a database
of what you're interested in.
That's the most important thing.
I can show you lots of content.
I can show you a lot of stuff,
but if I show you what
you're interested in,
you're more likely to buy, right?
You're more likely to buy if you looked
at 100 jet URLs buying a book on jets
than buying a book on the right flyer.
So now,
we're starting to create the databases
so that the store or the Smithsonian will
know what you're interested in.
So a big goal.
So, one of the things that I like telling
people is always think outside the box,
always think of what the
other person is interested in.
Think of what the other avenues are.
You know, I started my career as
just a photographer.
Now I'm creating VR content.
Now I'm creating kiosk content.
Now we're starting looking at
like how to accumulate all this
information to help the client,
to help them sell or to help them
get involved with more stuff.
I'm going to close this and close that,
I think.
I wanted to show you
one other... Hold on.
. There it is.
I just saw it.
Sorry, having user interface error.
Because I can't find--
did I open up that file?
Did I put that-- oh, there we go.
Must be under VR under NASA.
So we were talking about
high-res stuff earlier.
We shoot with these very
high-resolution digital cameras.
My Canon can make a 32-megabyte file.
Every file,
every image is 4,000 by 2,000 pixels,
approximately.
I can create tremendous
amount of information.
So this particular VR is eight
30 meg files authored together.
It's a little chunky when
I start to move around.
This is a 95 megabyte file,
but compressed down through JPEG,
it's about a 2 and 1/2 meg VR.
But what the museum loves is this.
I can keep coming down looking at detail.
So my project,
even though I have a lot of attributes,
even though I'm doing a lot of things,
my real project is archiving history.
The entire project is based on shooting
all this imagery so that 50 years from
now somebody can come back and see
what the details were on that aircraft.
When the aircraft are hung,
they're not scheduled to
come down for 60 years.
So we're creating a lot
of information for them,
for researchers, for students,
for schools.
I'm very big into education.
So, you know,
we can start taking a look at, you know,
lots of information
that's all the way back.
From like here.
So a lot of information
that they can use.
I just want to open up one or two shots.
We tend to make screen savers
of everything we shoot.
I will launch... I'll
just pick a picture.
So let me grab this one here.
Photoshop 7, latest, greatest thing.
Runs faster on a G5.
I could use a G5.
Just in case anybody wants to donate.
So let's go here and I'll just
zoom in and let's get to 100%.
So I have a wealth of information.
So Smithsonian loves the VR.
They love what we're doing with the VR.
But what they're really excited
about is that 144 pictures every
10 degrees of every aircraft.
That's what they're really excited
about because now they have a
wealth of information that any
researcher can come back in 100 years,
50 years, 10 weeks even,
and start looking at what
that was on that airplane and
what the interior looks like.
In two weeks I start
shooting the Enola Gay,
a very historic aircraft.
Not so much what it did,
but it was also the
forefront of technology.
And they're having us shoot everything,
the interior, the exterior.
It's going to be interesting rotating it.
I'll have a lot of
pathways after that one.
So if we could go back to my demo.
Demo machine, sorry.
So we'll move on.
So software we're using,
Canon has a product called
Remote Capture for their cameras.
Nikon has a similar product.
So we're feeding the cameras through
FireWire right to the computers.
We're using iMacs.
iMacs are great little
imaging stations for capture.
And then they've been,
the screens have been color calibrated.
Photoshop 7 with the RAW Acquire module.
Apple Computer.
Sounds like I'm doing an ad,
but we use a lot of their products.
Preview is a very big thing.
Preview allows us to grab these
RAW files and just look at
them right away on the screen.
We don't have to spend time going through
like an import or opening up Photoshop.
iPhoto.
A lot of my friends give me a hard time,
how can you say you're a
professional and you use iPhoto?
But iPhoto has a lot of great features.
I have a lot of people who need
to present on what our project is,
and I put together little slide
shows in iPhoto with music,
and then I'll put a QuickTime movie.
If it's a more impressive
piece that they need,
I use Final Cut Express,
QuickTime VR authoring studio,
and then Mail.
The government loves email.
And, and, you know,
I think they learned a lot from this.
And then we have a lot of people
who are interested in the project.
So we're going to be doing
a lot of these projects.
I think they learned that from Apple.
So, because I get an average of 30
to 40 emails just from different
departments at the government
checking on what's going on.
And could you email me that?
You know?
So that type of thing.
RealVis Stitcher for doing the cubics,
also for doing cylinders,
and then VR Toolbox that works.
And that's actually wrong.
I use 2.1, which runs native in OS X.
So a lot of software stuff there.
Content display use.
Now, if you thought I knew
a lot about airplanes,
I know a lot about displays now.
So, kiosks.
Kiosks is the idea that the kiosks will
be throughout the museum as you come in.
You would learn about
the different aircraft.
Kind of like that interface
I showed you earlier.
But the other thing is, remember,
you know, 8 million people per year.
So we're talking about plasma displays,
like 54-inch Pioneer displays
on both sides of the kiosks
being driven by the kiosks.
Color management is a big issue.
Getting color to match on LCDs,
matching a computer display
is not an easy thing.
So doing a lot of stuff with color.
And then handhelds.
So starting -- that's a big bug thing,
buzzword for museums and handhelds.
I'm going to show you this.
This is a Palm OS,
and this is a Sony Clia, outdated,
as of a couple days ago.
So let me go back to Moonsuit.
So here's a VR running on Palm OS.
Think about renting-- instead
of renting the headsets,
$10 for a pair of headsets,
listening to a cassette,
think about renting this for $10.
And as you get close to a kiosk,
the infrared transmitter triggers content
down here that's not on the kiosk.
So now, besides being a revenue
stream-- always think revenue--
You also have different
ways to display the content.
You can give the visitors
more information.
And two weeks ago, the Smithsonian,
it was really funny.
discovered... Oh, you can do sound files,
you can put together really cool stuff.
There's some beta programs out there.
Let me do this.
So, a few weeks ago,
the Smithsonian discovered that
the Clis had a built-in camera.
Right?
I could take your picture.
Thank you for smiling.
So, and they've already figured out,
well, if we rent these out and
then we have the cameras,
when we hook them up to the iMac,
iPhoto launches and they could print
it out and we could charge them for it.
Did I tell you that they
always think revenue?
Okay, so handheld devices,
we're doing a lot of research
and development on handhelds.
Sony's been very nice to the
Smithsonian and our company.
They've loaned us several of these units.
They're sending a whole
box load of these,
and we're starting to work on
prototyping for rentals and
information on the kiosks.
The other big thing is education.
Smithsonian is putting in,
or the National Air and Space Museum is
actually putting in classrooms
that will be wired with cameras.
I was real excited about iChat,
besides QuickTime broadcasting
and all that.
We have a lot of capabilities.
So they'll be bringing in guest
lecturers doing the remote
learning or the e-learning,
and we're real excited about that
because all the content we're creating,
a lot of the directors
are excited about it.
Putting this new content in
with their presentations.
So a whole wealth of online.
We have to start looking at servers,
and I'm pushing for the XServe,
because they want to take that
28,000 movie tone newsreels,
convert them to QuickTime,
have them on servers,
so that educators from around the
world can log on and start looking at
this content to use in lesson plans.
Or you can just log on and, you know,
just spend all day looking at, you know,
like the X15 or whatever.
So web use,
another big development for them.
CD and DVD use,
working really big on the DVD side.
They actually have numbers
and they track what sales are,
and DVDs are definitely on a high rise.
You know,
it's beyond the missionary phase.
It's got a steep curve.
So they're talking to us about
creating a lot of content for DVDs.
Right now what we've done
is we do the fake VRs,
and there's actually a way
in DVD authoring studio
to change the controllers.
So the idea is that you
make your linear movie,
but you control it from your VR movie,
but you control it by your cursors
on your TV handheld remote.
So you do a fake VR.
You could spin around
on the inside of that.
I think they did that with Harry Potter.
I think they have some VR stuff
that's... simulated on Harry Potter.
Okay, other cool stuff.
Now, I'm sorry,
I only expected five people.
And I didn't have time.
I bought 100 of these.
And somehow I'm down to three.
So I'm going to pass these around,
but after we're done with
the presentation today,
I'm going to pull up the-- no,
you're at the wrong screen, dude.
Back to the demo screen, please.
So I'm going to pass these around.
If you would grab that.
And everybody, you get two seconds.
Please pass it to the next person.
Yeah, $5, $5.
Revenue generating.
I keep forgetting that word.
So our latest thing is VR in 3D.
So using one camera or two cameras,
we're shooting imagery,
and now we're creating 3D
effects by moving red channels
between the two imagery.
I actually have some VR to show you.
I will do that in a little
bit so you can see the effect.
But it wasn't so much
just for the average,
you know,
just joy of putting on those glasses,
and if I had a room full
of you wearing those,
I would definitely take your picture.
But there's a bunch of
researchers who are involved,
and right now all we're doing
is putting in distances.
We're putting in these,
they're about four foot wide,
they have color swatches,
and they mark every six
inches as reference points.
And we have four of these, like,
pieces of foam core that we put
into our images while we shoot,
so that later researchers could
come back and figure out how big
something is and what the distance is.
The 3D is really big for them.
They think that that would be
a major thing in the sense of
looking at objects and getting
more of a dimensional feel to it.
So when we were showing them VR 3D,
they were like,
"Can you shoot every airplane like this?"
Let's see, 200 times 2.
I was like, OK, how big is the budget?
But I will show you that.
Making it a business,
because originally when
Apple asked me to come speak,
they were like, you know,
you've done this for a long time,
and you actually make money.
So we'd like to have you
speak about making VR,
shooting VR into a business.
So there's a couple things
that you need to think about.
You know what, I'm going to,
how can I do this?
I can't do that.
I'll get through this quick and then I'll
put the 3D image back up there for you.
I'm sorry.
So skill sets that I feel that you need.
Marketing.
Marketing is really big.
I do a lot of marketing stuff, you know,
sending out samples.
But you have to know your market.
You have to know if that market's
viable and you have to find the
right people in that market.
When I shoot in the car industry,
I know that there's less
than 100 art directors in the
United States that I need to speak to.
I don't need a big ad campaign.
I don't need a lot of stuff.
I need to find those 100 art directors.
when I do VR I pick the project where
it makes the most sense and then I start
distilling down who it would service
how I get there negotiation I have
a negotiations always tough and the
big problem is is that you know they
don't want to pay you you know it's
a computer thing right it's only two
seconds I can hire a kid for 15 bucks
out of college to do this for me so
you know the way I start my negotiation
is this I tell them you you know I want
a million dollars they'll say how much
do you want for this project I want
a million bucks you know they come back
and they say you know a million bucks
I said well you don't want you know you
don't want to pay me more than 50 cents
usually at that point they say I don't
want to pay you at all and and so then
I say see we've got the dialogue going
[Transcript missing]
The most important items to remember.
I have broken them
down into three groups,
because knowing you're all developers,
I have to keep it simple.
Perseverance.
As I told you,
my Smithsonian project took me two years.
I had a lot of heavy-duty competition.
People who knew the industry
just as well as I did,
who probably had access to more hardware,
more equipment,
bigger budgets than I did,
but I kept in there.
As people got tired and dropped out,
because when you're
dealing with a government,
their whole job is to hold you back.
So I just kept after it, I kept working,
and eventually the tide
turned and people got excited,
and then all of a sudden
the floodgates opened.
So now we're talking to other
parts of the Smithsonian,
and we're actually talking
to some countries now.
A lot of museums are owned by countries,
and we have some places
in Asia and North America.
There are some places in
North America that are interested
in hiring us for our services.
Think outside the box.
I know a lot of VR people who are,
it doesn't matter what business,
but they're so focused
on what they're doing,
they tend to forget that
there's peripherals on the side.
A good friend of some of us, Tim Petros,
who shoots VR, he also has these things
called bongo ties.
He makes a lot of money on a little
piece of rubber in a wood stack.
But he needed something to use in his
business to hold the cables together.
So for me, it's looking at other avenues.
Remember the panoramic
file of the interior?
Right now we're in negotiations with a
publisher to do posters and calendars.
It'll just be that long,
stripped image with the
calendar down below,
or for another company,
it's just going to be
the posters themselves,
just a dash.
So, I'm going to show you
a couple of examples.
And they pay up front.
I like that.
So, a lot of other avenues.
So I tell people, think outside the box.
I have a couple of companies talking
to us about the handheld devices.
You know, just knowing that we're
doing research and stuff,
they're asking if we
could help them with ours.
And there's actually companies,
I shouldn't share this with you,
but since you spent the
big bucks to be here.
People have funding for research.
So the government has grants,
and they're actually-- we're talking
to the grant department about
a grant on just coming up with
the concept of content for this.
So there's different things
out there that you can do that
may correlate to your business,
and you could get paid for it.
OK, so thinking outside the box,
and my favorite and last one.
So, you know, what I do is of value.
What you do is of value.
You know, I'm sure that when Michelangelo
was paying the chapel up there,
they were like, you know, telling him,
it's great, it's beautiful.
They knew they weren't going to pay him,
but they made sure he felt good about it.
So, what we do is a service.
What I do is help sell products
or help educate people.
That's my two things.
When I take a picture of a car,
it's worth billions of
dollars in sales to GM.
Well, it's not that GM will ever
pay me billions of dollars or
millions of dollars or hundreds
of thousands of dollars,
but they will pay me.
And they know that the value
is of having a good photograph.
So, I should be compensated accordingly.
So, I tell people when they get involved
in projects to remember what
the value is that you're doing.
And the most powerful thing that
you have in your repertoire is no.
No, I won't do it for that.
You know,
a lot of us get paranoid and we're too
worried about not getting any money.
So, we tend to like, you know, okay,
I'll do it for that.
And you forget that you ruined the
industry for the rest of your peers.
You know,
I have to go up against photographers
willing to do VR for $25.
You know, there's no way that I will
do an image for $25.
I won't even get out of bed for $25.
Well, I might get out of bed for $25,
but, you know,
So you understand the concept
of what you do is valuable and
you should be compensated for,
and you should be at a
certain level with it,
based on your experience and market
pressures and stuff like that.
There's a lot of things.
I would do VR for a lot less if there's
a lot of work that I could do quickly,
and I've done that.
So something for you to keep in
mind is to keep your value up,
because when you say okay that
you'll do it for that lesser amount,
now you've set a standard, right?
I know I can get it for this.
And I don't care what you're going to do,
but now when they come talk to me,
they're going to say, wow, boy,
I don't know,
I can get this guy to do it for 25 bucks.
Well, okay, go hire him for 25 bucks.
No, I won't do that.
So it's a very powerful word,
and I can actually tell you that
I've walked out of rooms and they've
stopped me before I left and say,
well, but you have all these
other capabilities.
So always remember what your value is.
Always remember what you're doing.
So I'm going to go back
to the demo laptop.
and pull up one image real quick,
and then I'll pull up the 3D.
How are we doing on time?
I got time, right?
We're good on time?
Okay.
Yeah, okay.
Somebody may ask a question.
By the way,
for those of you going to ask questions,
I have prizes for stupid questions.
There's no such thing
as stupid questions,
so, you know.
All right,
so this is that stripped image.
The screen's a little contrasty,
but 90-meg file.
You know, I can zoom in.
I can see lots of detail.
We're publishing.
We're doing a series of 12.
Concord SR-71.
I get really cool stuff to shoot.
So, the Wright Flyer.
They're taking a Wright Flyer
down for us in October,
so we'll be photographing
the Wright Flyer.
Lots of really cool technology,
lots of really cool stuff.
So, let me...
I'm going to quit that,
and then I'll get back to the VR.
So the three people
that have the glasses,
so put on your glasses, okay,
and here I can rotate,
and now that engine should be,
unless the projector's reversed, no,
I think it's right.
The engine looks like
it's shooting out at you,
kind of?
Yeah.
Tainasorda?
Somebody say yes.
Just say yes.
Okay, good.
I love that guy.
So, yeah.
So, and the 3D effect will maintain
itself even as we zoom in.
So it's not like some of
these Photoshop plugins
where it makes it a fake 3D.
We can actually have full rev 3D.
If I can find, there they are.
So we're doing a lot of the cockpits.
We haven't authored them yet,
but we're doing a lot
of the cockpits in 3D.
Here's the using preview.
This looks like it's just
jumping out at you at the screen.
Here's the still image from the VR,
or a still image from the VR.
B29 looks like it's
also jumping out at you.
So really cool,
some of the stuff we're doing.
I want to close this.
And then if we could go
back to my demo machine.
I'm sorry, to my presentation machine.
I can launch something
while they're doing that.
OK, good.
So, we're going to take Q&A and I'm
going to show you one other thing
that's launching on my machine.
I just want to reiterate that I've
made an entire business and an entire
life out of creating VR content.
I started out as a little photographer.
I'm just a photographer.
And my business has grown.
We now have a huge contract with
the Smithsonian that looks like
it's going to go on for two years.
Do we struggle?
We struggle all the time.
You know, do we suck air like every
other small business?
I hate when that happens.
Okay.
What do you mean QuickTime needs
to know all that?
It doesn't need to know that.
So, okay.
Could we come back to my demo machine?
So let's go back to my demo machine.
I'm going to show you something.
It's just-- and I can give
you some information today.
So I'm going to pull this in.
I don't know if anybody's seen
this presentation from BeHear.
Has anybody seen this
presentation before?
So BeHear has a VR technology for video.
Now BeHear has struggled like
a lot of internet companies.
I can tell you that a company
two weeks ago bought their
assets for this technology,
and they're now revving it to 10.
So I'll be able to do this
and play it native in 10.
But this is video VR,
and I can look around in a full 360,
right?
So,
we're on the streets of San Francisco.
Should be a title of a TV show.
And we've got a, what did I write?
It's a Chrysler Concorde,
something like that.
It's a Chrysler thing.
And we're driving down the streets.
I've got the camera
mounted to the windshield.
You know,
and it's mounted to the windscreen.
And all of a sudden,
this guy comes up alongside,
and he's like,
"What are you doing?" And we're like,
"We're shooting video." He's like, "Cool.
Hi, Mom."
Alright, so you know how it is
in the United States?
We're a nation of shy
and reserved people.
And we don't like to think outside the
box and we don't do anything crazy.
No, never do anything crazy.
But if two people do it, it's a sport.
So there's this sport where
you get on these wooden sleds,
right, and you go down the
road as fast as you can.
Has anybody seen this presentation?
Okay.
So anyway, here, let's go.
So we'll start it up.
So we've got the camera mounted.
It's on a little arm.
It's facing up.
I can talk about the technology later.
And we're going down this street,
and I thought this was really cool.
So at any point in time,
I can start spinning around.
There's the dude.
Yeah, right.
Oh, sure.
You know what?
They line the streets with bales of hay
because sometimes the guys fall off.
You know, and they take spectators out.
That was exactly the way
it was described to me.
I was like, really?
And the noise you hear,
they steer by drag.
It's all about drag, man.
Those shoes have special
metal plates in the bottom.
And when they want to go to the right,
you know, you put the right shoe down.
It drags you to the right.
When you want to go to the left,
you drag it to the left.
So when you want to slow down,
both feet go down.
I just wanted to show you the ending
because I love the ending of this.
This guy is like a national champ.
He didn't have to compete.
So this is the qualifier.
That's why they could do this.
So we're looking around, you know,
just spinning around, doing our thing.
There's the bales of hay.
We're cutting them up to the finish line.
These guys hit like 60 miles an hour,
two inches off the ground.
We're passing the finish line.
We're going to start off.
Well, maybe.
And now we're going to sit up
because we can get more leverage.
Maybe.
You know what?
We'll go with plan B.
The bales of hay.
But the camera was okay.
So thank you very much for coming.
Some more things coming up.
One of the things I want to point
out is that the QuickTime feedback
form has been moved to Marina,
which is this room over here.
Come with your questions.
And while I'm going through
the rest of these slides,
if you have any questions for Dennis,
please line up at the microphones.
And we have a few -- just a
couple of sessions tomorrow.
Who to contact, how to contact Dennis,
how to contact Guillermo Ortiz for any
questions about QuickTime VR at Apple or
QuickTime development things at Apple.
More information,
you guys have seen these
a thousand times already.
And the
QuickTime Content Creation Lab and
QuickTime Development Lab is
still open for the next two days.
Only today until 4:30 because
we've got the party down on campus.